Now to finish up this topic on interceptors
and by the way, we'll see interceptors again in the authentication section of this course
but to wrap it up for now, let's add a second interceptor because you're not limited to one, you can add
as many as you want.
I'll name this one logging interceptor because I only want to do some logging here
and therefore the file name is logging-interceptor.service.ts and
there
we now will create a new interceptor,
feel free to pause the video at this point and try it on your own of course.
You do create it by exporting a class, which you should name appropriately like logging interceptor
service,
this has to implement the HttpInterceptor interface which you import from @angular/common/http,
this forces you to add an intercept method which then in turn gets a request which is of type
HTTP request and which gets this next object function thing which is of type HTTP handler
and there, you should return next handle as you learned
and since HTTP request is generic, you should also add angled brackets there and define the type of data
it will eventually wrap.
Now to next handle, you also have to pass your request in.
This is a basic interceptor but of course, it's not doing any logging which it should if we have a look
at the name.
So here, I will now do some logging and of course log whatever you want here.
So here, I'll just log outgoing request and maybe also the URL, though you could of course also
log the headers or whatever you want
and on the response, I will now again pipe the tap operator which is imported from
rxjs/operators where I got the event
and here, we could now log all events again
but I only care about the response
so I'll compare the event type to HTTP event type response
and in there, we can console log incoming response and also console log the event body, so the response
body if you want to. Now it's a very simple logging interceptor. In the auth interceptor, I'll therefore
get rid of that extra logging I'm doing here,
so I'll get rid of that pipe method and just return the modified request,
I'll also not log these two statements here, so that I have a leaner interceptor here.
So this interceptor is now only attaching the auth header and the other interceptor is responsible
for logging,
now we just need to add them both
and now here it comes something super important, the order in which you provide them matters because
that will be the order in which they are executed.
So in the app module here, of course we provide the other interceptor, the logging interceptor by simply
repeating this object in that providers array
and here you now point at that logging interceptor service which you have to import
but now this auth interceptor will run first and thereafter comes the logging interceptor.
Now often, the order might not matter but if it does, be aware of that order and order your interceptors
accordingly so that the order in which they execute fits your use case and whatever you're doing in
your interceptors and to prove that order thing, in the logging interceptor, I'll actually also console
log the request headers because there, since the logging interceptor comes second, we should see that
custom key, this auth key being added.
So now if that if we save that, let me clear the console and fetch again, we see outgoing request
and URL, we see the headers and in there,
indeed we have that auth thing with the value of xyz and we have incoming response and we see the response
body and now to really prove that order thing, remember that
here we see auth xyz,
now I guess you can already imagine what will happen if I switch the order here and we log first and
thereafter, we add the key.
Well if we do that and I clear that and then I fetch, then of course you see we still log the same as
before
but if we inspect our headers, here we only got that custom header which we're not setting in an interceptor,
we're missing the auth header though.
So the order matters
but other than that, providing multiple interceptors is extremely simple as you can tell.